---
title: Gut Punch
subtitle: New SMP age restrictions and the road ahead
layout: post
date: 2025-11-26
keywords: blogging, writing
published: true
---

For you LCMS Lutherans out there, you've probably heard the recent news concerning the (relatively) controversial Specific Ministry Pastorate (SMP) program. Namely, the new requirement that anyone attending the program must be at least 40 years of age. As mentioned in my last entry, I was in the process of studying for the entrance exams for this program. Unfortunately I'm about 7 years short of the new age requirement. 

While this was a "gut punch" (as hinted at in the title), I don't intend to wallow in self pity over this news. God has still clearly called me to be a husband, a father, and to serve in the church in some capacity. What that capacity is, I'm not entirely sure. The "lay-deacon" designation seems somewhat meaningless at times since it comes with no official responsibilities or expectations that I can discern. For the time being, I will just continue to assist with the Divine Service, manage the church library, and fill in for the Deaconess when she is on vacation or performing duties for the LWML. 

Regarding my career, librarianship appears to be a viable option. Right now the plan is to pursue an MLIS degree online once we move, and then apply for a middle or high school position through the PACE program. Farther down the road I'd also like to pursue a masters in Church History at the ALTS (the only confessional Lutheran institution that offers online graduate degrees in fields other than business administration, healthcare, or education) or a masters in Medieval Studies, but that will depend on finances and where I'm at with the PACE program. 

If I manage to accomplish all of this in 7 years, maybe I can enroll in the SMP when I'm 40. Either way, I'm trusting in God to provide and lead me.

Signing off. 
